# Datathon-Cajamar
Work carried out for a datathon in Spain in 2021.

The challenge is to predict future product sales based on past data, as well as other known values that can help predict the desired value. The starting data set reflects a multivariate time series time series, where the time unit is the day. In addition, each product has an identifier, so the conjunction of a given day and product indicates a series of values including the units sold of that product on that day. Two datasets are available, one to train the prediction method with information from 16 months, and another for estimation, without the units sold, for 3 months.

First, an exploratory data analysis is carried out to discover the characteristics of each type of variable and how they relate to each other. Some of the most important features seen in the data is that the distribution of units sold has most of its values at zero, i.e. for most days and product there are no sales at all. This is known as a Zero-Inflated distribution. More details can be found in the exploratory analysis section (Script_Exploratorio.ipynb).

Finally, the selected model is applied and the prediction is made. Although it is a time series, the classical time series classical time series prediction algorithms (Exponential smoothing, SARIMA, among others) do not seem to be the most suitable, as they do not take advantage of the information of the other variables. After reviewing the bibliography and similar cases, it was decided to change the approach to Machine Learning where all the variables, including the time series variables, are used to predict. In our case, we have chosen a gradient boosting algorithm provided by the LightGBM library has been chosen. We make use of the tweedie objective function, since it is especially effective for Zero-Inflated distributions (Script_prediccion.ipynb).

The results obtained indicate that the prediction is quite good in general, but fails in the sales peaks that occur at very specific moments. One of the causes may be that the proportion of data with very high sales is a very small part of the dataset, so the algorithm generalises well, but does not have enough data to estimate these cases. More details can be found in the modelling and prediction section.
